Importance of a Cybersecurity Project Portfolio  
Michael E. Leathers Jr  
[leathersjrmichael@gmail.com](mailto:leathersjrmichael@gmail.com)

A personalized cybersecurity project portfolio is a key component to be included when an individual is seeking to enter the workforce. The cybersecurity portfolio is best described as a culmination of works that showcase an individual’s technical skills, knowledge and practical skill related to cybersecurity. The portfolio exists as an embodiment of one’s ability to address and apply cybersecurity concepts and tools in the face of real-world scenarios. This is arguably the best way to display evidence of their knowledge in the related subject matter outside the constraints of a traditional resume or by simply possessing industry certifications.   
The traditional resume, along with a CV (Curriculum Vitae), LinkedIn profile and project portfolio are all excellent ways to provide insight into an individual’s knowledge and understanding of the cyber field. The project portfolio stands out as the most effective way to display technical skills and the ability to apply them. Resumes are constrained by their traditional format and inability to provide a look into the individuality of its creator. Where a resume lacks in personalization, the presence of a LinkedIn profile can be very helpful. While they do allow for more customization, they exist primarily as an avenue to network with like minded members of the workforce.   
A project portfolio allows one to bring their detail-oriented work ethic to the forefront for potential employers to see. Unlike the traditional resume and LinkedIn profile, the ability to dive into projects that focus on specific subject matters is present. This opens the door to provide extensive and detailed explanations, sample code, related documentation and the results as a culmination of all of these facets of each project. This is the only environment where an individual can showcase the actual work being done. Portfolio’s allow one to demonstrate their practical experience. This gives employers the avenue to determine the value of a potential employee based on the quality and depth of work.   
To conclude, a project portfolio is in my opinion the most important piece that someone seeking employment within the cybersecurity/IT field can present. Unlike a resume or LinkedIn page, the portfolio allows one to put their all of their skills on display. This includes their technical skills, practical examples and the possibility for interactive elements that showcase real-world application. Together a resume, LinkedIn profile and well thought out and executed project portfolio compliment one another in a way that can greatly increase the likelihood that an individual is able to secure the job role that they are seeking. 